This section of old.
Yes, we are discussing very important related questions of object literal.
The main question is what is an object literal?
And there will be five related questions.
There are many ways to create an object in JavaScript that is also a class object capital which can
allow you to create an object.
Here we are discussing the most essential way of object creation.
And trust me, it's extremely important in any case of object creation.
The basic idea is that we are creating a container to bundle data pieces.
Let's take a simple example.
If we have a table on which we have been pencils, sharpeners, erasers and 20 other things.
Now, if you want to take all the things from one place to another, it's better that you have a box
or a kind of container.
So you put everything in it and shifted wherever you want to.
Similarly, when you have different data pieces which you may want to pass to one function to another,
or maybe you want to pass it to some server, then you bundle the data pieces in an object and pass
it.
So in a way, object actually allows you to create a container where you can put variables, even functions.
Also, let's take an example.
You have a product called product name, price and more fields, and you want to pass this data to a
function.
So the function might look like this, that you have a function product and you have various parameters
parsed here.
Instead of this, you can write something like this that you have the object.
Put all the different pieces in one container.
This becomes a container.
We will see the syntax, how we create it.
But this is just a kind of illustration that how do we create an object?
And we passed the object in the function like this.
So this is the whole idea of creating an object.
Though there are many other advantages after creating this kind of container.
But that discussion, we keep it for some other day.
At the moment we are discussing all the related questions and what is object literature?
That is our main discussion.
Object literal is simply a key value pair data structure.
Let's take an example.
I want to create an object literal.
Normally you may have different variables, for example, product code, product name and so on.
If I want to put everything inside object literal, how can I do that to create the object literal?
This is the syntax.
If I say let our concept object, is it going to call in brackets?
If I do this, this means I have created an object literal.
For example, I want to add variables to this object.
Now remember, if I have product code is equal to 1001, for example, and I want to add this to the
object, you just say object or product code.
Also, I want to add one more variable to it.
I will say Apple, for example.
In case if you want to add a function to the object, that is also possible, let's say I want to have
get data.
That is the function and this function I want that it should be part of the object, not as an independent
function.
So I can say object dot get data is equal to.
You don't need to write this name.
This is basically function expression.
And here I can simply say console.log object or be or an object dot b name.
That's it.
Let's try to display the value of object itself.
I say North Pole jazz, not jazz.
Now, as you can see here, the object displays that it has three, two variables and one method when
I'm seeing three.
What does it have?
It has three members.
The variable you put inside object is called as a property.
So we have two properties bigger than P name and a function added to an object is called as method.
So here we have total three members, two properties and one matter.
This is how an object literally is created.
So now if you have to pass this object to some function, maybe on the server.
The thing is, you have created this container and you have placed these members in it.
That is the advantage of creating an object larger.
This is not actually the right way.
Normally we do not create object literally like this.
What we do in JavaScript, the common practice, I mean, is that we place everything inside the object
literally, directly.
We don't create an empty object.
And then we added generally a the syntax changes a bit.
If you put everything inside the object.
So we do not need to write object because as such you are declaring those members inside the object
itself.
You do not write equal to sign to assign it.
You use the colon sign and you do not end the statement with a semicolon.
That is, you put a comma.
This is the most commonly used way to create an object literal.
We declare all the members inside the object itself.
So now if I run, that is no change at all.
It is the same thing.
The only difference is now the code is shifted.
That is the declaration of properties and methods are matter.
One matter in our case is shifted inside the object.
That is the object.
If you want to access individual members, as you must have observed in this code, that DOT is the
operator.
Right.
Now, I also want to add one more point here, which is introduced in E6.
The function that is the method we have written here is like this.
That is, we have an equal to sign that is assignment in this case colon.
But that is a kind of assignment only.
So this exact data equals to function in E6.
Now you can avoid this syntax.
You can simply write like this.
This is a valid one.
So now instead of writing any colon are equal to outside of the object.
You just write get data.
That's it.
This is how we define the matters in classes also, but that we are going to discuss in one of our forthcoming
section.
So let's try this code again to make sure that the output is same.
As long as calling this matter is concerned, we can simply say object or get data.
That's it.
And this will display as the data that it is.
The way we have created one object, literally, we can also have any level of objects in it.
For example, you want one more object after peak, or let's say you want here that because it also
has maybe some I.D. and it also has second part, for example, the second part of the product or maybe
some character.
So I just say A-B-C.
So the thing is, whenever you want to create an object, literally, you just open the brackets and
you start writing.
Important point here is that picture is the key and the one which you are writing here is the value.
B name is the key, the one which you are writing here.
Like in this case Apple is the value.
So that's why we call the object literal is key value pair data structure.
If you know about Jason Farmer, that's also a key value pair.
But the only difference is that the key is always inside double quotes when we talk about Jason.
But we are not discussing Jason at the moment, but just for the reference that if you are comparing
this object with Jason, or rather Jason is more used because of this format we have in JavaScript called
object literal, right?
So this is the object which helps to convert the JASON data to this format.
So often we see that the JASON data which we receive is converted into object later.
Now I'm changing back this product code to 1001.
I also mentioned one thing here that F6 has this format where we directly right get data.
We don't write any colon sign or function.
We do not right arrow function for sure.
Remember that.
Also we are going to discuss in one of the question why we should not use arrow function inside object
later to be on a safer side.
If you are using this object then I do not recommend the arrow function in it, but that we will discuss
in one of our next questions here in E6.
That is also one more facility provided and that is about giving the dynamic key values.
Imagine that this big or P named, for example, is not decided earlier.
Maybe some data is retrieved and then that key is decided.
So this key I want to make dynamic now let's say I create a variable here I select temporary variable.
Is it called do I name speaker here?
Right.
And if I say TV here, that is temporary variable, right?
Let's see what happens if I run this.
It is undefined.
So that is some problem with it, right?
Object part B code is undefined.
So that is some issue.
Let me also display sort of get data.
Let me just display the object itself so you get better idea what exactly has happened.
You see this DV 1001, but that is DV itself.
It is not big or and that's why because we do not have any picture like variable, it is not giving
the data.
Instead it returns undefined.
How can you make sure that this value of variable TV is assigned?
What you have to do is you just put the key inside square brackets the moment you put it in square record
object literal understands that this is a dynamic key.
That means you are not supposed to take DV as a key.
Rather, the value which is residing inside TV will be the actual key name.
Let's try this again now.
Now you see instead of TV.
Now we have B code and 1001 is displayed.
So this is something which is introduced in E6.
In fact, you may have different matter like this.
For example, I'll say get, then I join it.
And data, this is also valid.
I'm just giving for the sake of showing the functionality, this can be a dynamic value, right?
But right now assume that we have two different values and you want to join.
You may have two different variables which you may want to join for a method name or fara property name.
Let's try this whether it runs proper or not.
You see this?
It does say get data.
So giving the dynamic key is possible because now we have this square bracket syntax to do this.
That is also one more good facility available in E6, which is called as property value shorthand.
But that is one of our related question.
I'm going to discuss property shorthand feature in the related question.
So these were a few syntax and tweaks we have seen about object literal.
Now let's discuss related questions of this topic.
The first question is, can you have dynamic keys with object literal?
Yes, we can have we have already seen the last example where the key is not fixed, but it is referred
by a variable.
Even we saw that a matter like get data, we try to divide into two different values.
Then also it was valid.
So of course dynamic keys is absolutely allowed with square brackets.
The next question is how can you add real only properties to an object?
Now, this is a very challenging question.
The reason is we are using object that is capital or object.
Let's try a sample code for the same thing I am creating.
Let's say a prototype.
I'll say proton PR or Lexapro to itself.
Right.
And I'll say object dot.
That is a matter called defined property, not properties property.
Then I have to pass an object literally if I have any object literal defined there.
Otherwise I can pass an empty object later.
Let's say I want to define a property named property and then I can define the configuration that is
you see here it says attributes.
Attributes means properties or attributes of the property which we are defining right now.
For example, let me drive B code itself.
Be cool.
Now what I want about this property is that is it writable?
Yes, it is.
Right there.
Well, that means one can change the property.
Right.
Is it configurable?
Yes, it is configurable.
So I'll say true.
What is the value of this property?
I say 2001.
Now I'm going to create an object.
Seeing concert object is equal to object art.
Create.
I'm creating the object and I'm passing the property.
This is one property configuration.
Pluto contains the configuration of one key.
That is one property.
This is the key name and this is the value.
But there are other settings also you can specify now object or create.
I say Pluto that means is going to create an object with this configured property and I'll say console.log.
And before that let me also try to assign that is to change value code to something else.
Let's say I give t001, that's it.
So now the P code which we initialize with 2001 after creation, we are changing it to 3001.
And let me just refer the picture only.
Let's see what happens.
It is 3001.
The value is changed.
Now this writable if I make it false like this and then if I run, even though I assigned 3001 but it
did not change.
It remained 2001 because I mentioned that make it read only.
So this is how you define the attributes of property and you can manipulate with the object literal
properties.
Remember, if you are running this in the browser, it will give you error provided you are running
it in a strict mode.
But if you are not running in a strict more, at least it will not change the value.
Fine.
It won't give any error.
Like right now here it is not showing any error, but if you have strict more on then certainly it will
give added as well.
So in short, yes, you can define read only properties with defined property method which has several
settings.
Next question is what is property value shorthand with object literal?
Now this topic I just mentioned a few minutes back that this is a new feature introduced in.
Let me show you one example here again, I take product code 1001 and product name, which I give something
like Apple.
My favorite.
I'm talking about the fruit, not the electronic item.
Apple select object is equal to now see this?
Imagine that this object has product code and there you want to assign this value.
That is because there is 1001.
The point here is you want the value to be fetched from a variable.
So you may write like this speaker is equal to peak or so.
The key is bigger and the value is being fetched from this speaker instead of this year.
Six gives you property value shorthand.
That is b code.
That's it.
You do not need to write this column, just speak or it means speaker equals two p code and I say p
name is equal to premium.
That means I don't write anything else.
That's it.
Let's check.
What is the object?
Now you see, the key is speaker value is 1001 which is being fetched from the variable.
Similarly we have p name and apple.
So this is called s property value shorthand where you do not need to write.
You have both the left and right side values equal.
Then you simply go with B code and P name.
Here.
The next question is what will be the output of this code?
The output of this code.
Let us try the code here.
The course is that there is an object we are creating and we are assigning this object that is object
to object one.
So when you are assigning the object, what actually happens is that the reference of the object is
passed.
So if you try to change object part a Saudi object one dot A, then it does change the value of object
one that is object itself.
Why?
Because here, this will not create a new copy.
This is not going to create a clone.
It just creates the reference.
So let's try this code.
You see.
So the object was first.
The output is second.
Even though you change obd one dot e.
So what actually happens in this case is that when you assign object one equals two object because the
assignment is by reference, that is, you can imagine that it is separately located somewhere and both
object and object one are sharing the same location because they are referring the address of a and
not the value.
So whenever you see object dot a R object one dot A is going to refer the very same location or variable.
That's why because of the reference copy it is giving this output.
In case if you want to have different objects, then this isn't the way to create a clone.
This is not creating clone in chart.
So if you want to create a clone, then that is our next question, which I am going to discuss right
now.
So the next question is how can we create a clone or a separate copy of an object literal?
So let's take this example and I want to create a clone.
One way is that you loop through all the properties that is all the keys of object and you assign to
OBJ one, right?
That is one way.
But in E6 we do also have object assigned matter that will allow you to create the clone of one object
literally.
Let me change this code and we will it.
Instead of this I will say object.
Dot.
Assign.
So the target object.
You can write the object itself.
Here we are leaving it blank because this is also going to return the reference to not exactly the reference,
but the new copy to object when I want the copy of object.
All right.
Now let's check the code.
What happens?
You see, now it says first.